Las Vegas Shooting: A THIRD Timeline Emerges

Editor's Note: This is probably a reason why reporters Laura Loomer and Mike Tokes were barred from entering the presser.
They would have posed real genuine questions of Sheriff Lombardo and forced him to stumble all over himself in answering them.
The words “conspiracy theorists” are being bandied about.
Are they for real?
A well-coordinated, meticulously planned attack on concertgoers leads to the murder of 58 Americans at a country music festival in Las Vegas, with over 500 injured, and they have no explanation or motive.
Do the FBI and law enforcement think people won’t talk about it or speculate as to what happened?
Are they for real?
Further, the FBI insists there is no jihad motive, while saying they don’t know his motive.
How can they possibly hold those two contradictory ideas at the same time?
The sheriff, alluding to allegations of a conspiracy between his department, the F.B.I., and MGM — supposedly in an effort to establish a legal case — said, “there is no conspiracy.”
William Jacobson explains the latest “revise” by the authorities is the now infamously botched Vegas investigation:
October 13, 2017, Legal Insurrection

Police and hotel still don’t agree on some details.
I realize that in the heat of a shooting, particularly a mass shooting, it may take some time for a precise timeline to develop.
But it didn’t take very long for the Las Vegas police to release a precise timeline.
The initial timeline was that Stephen Paddock’s shooting stopped when, approximately 6 minutes after he started, he was interrupted by a security guard from the Mandalay Bay hotel.
Paddock then turned his fire into the hallway, firing some 200 bullets, and after that the shooting stopped as police arrived.
That was Version No.
1.
Some days later, the Las Vegas police backed away from that timeline, and stated that the security guard actually arrived 6 minutes before Paddock started shooting into the crowd 32 stories below him.
That raised a number of question, including why no one called 911 after what must have been a loud volley of shots in a hotel hallway.
That was Version No.
2.
But now that is disputed, in Version No.
3.
WaPo reports:
Las Vegas police said Friday that the gunman who opened fire on a country music festival far below his hotel suite did not shoot a security guard six minutes before that rampage, contradicting a timeline they had offered earlier this week….
The confusion began Monday when police said that the gunman fired at the hotel security guard, Jesus Campos, six minutes before the mass shooting began, not during the massacre as they had said.
Lombardo also said police had hunted for the source of the gunfire and that officers responding to the gunman’s floor were unaware that a guard was shot until they arrived there, at which point the shooting rampage had ended.
MGM Resorts pushed back on this account, first saying Tuesday that there were unspecified inaccuracies and then, on Thursday, releasing a statement directly contradicting parts of what the police had said….
Lombardo had said Monday that Campos, the guard, was shot at 9:59 p.m. and that the mass shooting began at 10:05 p.m.
This six-minute gap relayed by Lombardo left uncertain whether there was any lag in alerting police to the source of the gunfire during critical moments.
Police said officers arrived on the 32nd floor at 10:17 p.m., two minutes after Paddock had stopped firing.
MGM, though, said it was “confident” that the 9:59 p.m. time was inaccurate and “was derived from a Mandalay Bay report manually created after the fact without the benefit of information we now have.” The company also disputed the suggestion of a lag, saying the shooting rampage began within a minute of Campos reporting his injury on the 32nd floor.
On Friday, Lombardo effectively agreed with the company’s statement, though he argued that the 9:59 p.m. time he had offered four days earlier “wasn’t inaccurate when I provided it.” Lombardo said he was told this time had been written by someone in a security log.
Upon investigation, Lombardo said, police learned that Campos first encountered a barricaded door on the 32nd floor at 9:59 p.m.
The guard was eventually fired upon by Paddock “in close proximity to” 10:05 p.m., when the mass shooting began, Lombardo continued.
Clear, right?
Not so fast, the police and hotel still have disagreement over important details, such as when police arrived relative to Paddock’s shooting at the crowd: An enormous, important discrepancy has emerged over what happened during the Las Vegas massacre: When did police arrive on the 32nd floor where Stephen Paddock was firing his deadly fusillade onto concertgoers below?
Las Vegas police say they didn’t get to the floor until after the shooting was over.
But MGM Resorts International, the owner of Mandalay Bay, says police officers were there shortly after the shooting began, responding to a report of a security guard being shot.
The discrepancy could raise questions about whether police might have taken steps to intervene while Paddock was launching his devastating 10-minute onslaught….
… on Thursday, in response to inquiries about when Mandalay Bay notified police of the Campos shooting, MGM Resorts issued a statement that was unequivocal: Las Vegas police officers accompanied Mandalay Bay security to the Campos shooting and “immediately responded.” MGM said that “Metro officers were together with armed Mandalay Bay security officers in the building when Campos first reported that shots were fired over the radio.
These Metro officers and armed Mandalay Bay security officers immediately responded to the 32nd floor.” The statement says MGM believes Paddock began firing out the window of his room within 40 seconds of Campos reporting his shooting, and Lombardo said Friday, “I agree with the statement.” These discrepancies on basic facts are feeding conspiracy theories.
As to Paddock’s motive, still nothing from the investigation.
Article posted with permission from Pamela Geller
