Rep. Danny Davis was For/Against/For/Against Farrakhan

Rep. Danny Davis helped get the ball rolling by praising Farrakhan.
Democratic Illinois Rep. Danny Davis defended Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan as an “outstanding human being” on Monday.
Farrakhan’s history of racially extreme comments includes blaming Jews for the September 11 attacks, saying white people “deserve to die” and praising Adolf Hitler as a “very great man.” “I personally know [Farrakhan], I’ve been to his home, done meetings, participated in events with him,” Davis told TheDC.
“I don’t regard Louis Farrakhan as an aberration or anything, I regard him as an outstanding human being who commands a following of individuals who are learned and articulate and he plays a big role in the lives of thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of people,” he emphasized later.
Then Rep. Davis' office issued a statement disavowing Farrakhan.
And then Davis got right back to talking to the Daily Caller and disavowed the disavowal.
“The congressman was insistent that The Daily Caller misquoted him during the interview and that he didn’t subscribe to Farrakhan’s anti-Semitic statements and actions in the past,” the ADL official told JTA in a statement.
“He expressed an interest in seeing some of the latest statements made by Farrakhan vis-a-vis Jews, which we promptly shared with him.” The congressman wasn’t sure why the ADL wrote that he had been misquoted in his praise for the anti-Semite, and said he wasn’t sure if someone from his office had told the ADL he was misquoted, he told The Daily Caller News Foundation on Sunday.
“I think that was what they wanted to write.
Nah, I don’t have no problems with Farrakhan, I don’t spend a whole lot of my time dealing with those kind of things,” Davis said.
“That’s just one segment of what goes on in our world.
The world is so much bigger than Farrakhan and the Jewish question and his position on that and so forth.
For those heavy into it, that’s their thing, but it ain’t my thing,” he said
The term "Jewish Question" is largely used by anti-Semites.
So Davis then sorta disavowed his own statements.
J Street endorsed him.
And then he talked to the Daily Caller again.
Democratic Illinois Rep. Danny Davis thinks Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, a notorious racist and anti-Semite, does “outstanding work” but doesn’t agree with Farrakhan’s positions that white people are “devils” and Jewish people are satanic.
Progress!
"I don’t spend a lot of time, I buy Final Call when I see them.
I’ve been to Saviour’s Day, I’ve read, I’ve been a fan of Elijah Muhammad, so those are my positions, but I do disagree with the notion that white people are devils.”
I wonder how far a white congressman would get saying, "I attended the Klavern, but I don't agree with the KKK's views about black people."
But that's Rep. Davis' current views.
He likes a racist hate group.
But doesn't believe white people are devils or Jews are satanic.
Whoever the JTA has on the "explain away Farrakhan's Dem fandom" beat is going to be busy again.
But this is typical of the Dems and their useful idiots.
And J Street is on record as endorsing a politician who praised a racist hate group leader and discussed the "Jewish question."
