Gillum Makes Promises He Can’t Keep, “that’s not for [voters] to know” Says Campaign Staff in Undercover Video – PVA

Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Email Link Embed Copy and paste this HTML code into your webpage to embed.
Empty Promises Exposed: “Fairy tales in the modern day begin with ‘once I am elected.
'”
Deceiving Voters: “None of the programs that people are hoping for would happen” but “That’s not for [voters] to know.”
Candidate’s True Politics: “Gillum is a Progressive” and “He is a part of the crazy, crazy, crazies.”
Election Strategy: “You whip ’em up.
The poor, the middle income.
You have to whip them up into a frenzy in order for them to vote.”
Secret Gun Control Agenda Revealed: “three day waiting period for everybody,” “small steps” to ban assault rifles; “I don’t think he can say it [be]cause he’s trying to get the moderates”
Florida is a “F***ed up,” “cracker state,” “you have to appeal to white guilt”
This is a breaking news story.
Refresh the page for updates.
(Tallahassee) Project Veritas Action Fund has released undercover video from Florida gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum’s campaign, revealing his election strategy includes making empty promises to voters.
This is the seventh undercover video report Project Veritas has released in a series revealing secrets and lies from political campaigns in 2018.
Said James O’Keefe, founder and president of Project Veritas Action:
“What we found in the Gillum campaign was just what we found in Missouri, Tennessee and Arizona, a candidate lying to the voters he needs to win the election.”
Gillum campaign makes promises it knows it can’t keep
Featured in this report is a campaign staffer who works on Andrew Gillum’s gubernatorial campaign.
Omar Smith, who says he went to college with Gillum, reveals Gillum cannot fulfill his campaign promises even if he wanted to.
When asked how Gillum would fund all the programs he says he wants to fund, Smith says Gillum “can’t,” and when asked if voters are aware that Gillum cannot deliver on his proposed programs, Smith says:
SMITH: “That’s not for them to know… That’s not for them to know.
Remember our saying, modern day fairy tales start with ‘once I am elected.
'”
Smith explains that most of Gillum’s campaign promises could never be implemented, and that the Gillum campaign knows this:
SMITH: “So, let’s go back to Mr. Gillum’s platform, right?
Raise the corporate tax in Florida from 7 to 11 percent.
That will never happen.
Raise teacher’s pay to $50,000, that will never happen.
Give me another position.
Medicare for all, that will never happen.
The reason being, the legislature that write the bills is all Republican controlled.
Democratic governor, Republican legislature.
So, unless the legislature writes a bill, and it got voted on the floor, it cannot pass.”
Smith says that “the rules in Florida are f***ed up” and that Florida is a “cracker state,” explaining that the Florida legislature has to become racially black for Gillum’s agenda to advance.
“Whip up” the poor into a “frenzy in order for them to vote.”
Smith says that in order to get voters on board with Gillum’s fairy tale platform, the campaign must “whip” lower income individuals “into a frenzy.”
SMITH: “You whip ’em up.
The poor, the middle income.
You have to whip them up into a frenzy in order for them to vote.
Once Gillum is in, in another 2 years, other Republican Senators and Legislators will be on the ballot.
So, you have to whip up the Andrew Gillum voters again in those counties to vote out the Republican to get a Democratic Legislature in order for his (Gillum) will to be executed.”
Smith adds that because not all Democratic voters are the same, that the Gillum campaign needs to appeal to “white guilt” to turn out the vote:
SMITH: “You have to appeal to white guilt… [be]cause that’s what it is.”
Smith also explains that the Gillum campaign can’t let voters know what Gillum’s true agenda is before election day:
SMITH: “… We don’t, do we have to let [the voters] know what the agenda is ahead of time?
We can’t… We cannot… You alienate everybody.
Then you get painted like, oh, Gillum is being painted, no.
You are a socialist, you are way out of left field…”
Gillum is a “crazy, crazy,” Democrat
Smith also explains Gillum’s political worldview, saying that “Gillum is a progressive… He is a part of the crazy crazy crazies.”
Cliff Eserman, who works for the Broward County Democratic Party adds that during the Democratic primary, Gillum had to campaign on values he does not really believe:
ESERMAN: “In order to win he had to be… He’s really left of center.
So he was being left, not left of center… For the primary.
Now [in the general] he’s going back to left of center.”
Dale Holeness, who is the Broward County Commissioner and also works on Gillum’s campaign, explains Gillum’s gun control views:
HOLENESS: “There ought to be at least a three-day waiting period for everybody and a full background check for everybody… And we need to- And these automatic guns with sixteen rounds a minute, they ought to not be on the streets either, so that’s his plan.”
Adrian Young, who works for the Florida Democratic Party also elaborates on Gillum’s gun control views in the report:
YOUNG: “… I do think he’s not saying specifically like I’m going to ban bump stocks or I’m against ATs, only because he’s running a race right now.
I do think he would support anybody doing that stuff, Bill Nelson… But I don’t think he can say it just [be]cause he’s trying to get the moderates and the gun-toting people in North Florida…”
More Elections…
This is the seventh release in a series Project Veritas Action Fund began publishing in October 2018 exposing dishonesty and unethical conduct in elections across the country.
Project Veritas Action Fund will continue to publish undercover reports in this series.
View the other investigative reports in this series:
