Capitol Police “Accidentally” Gave Treasure Trove of Evidence To Muslim IT Spy's Defense Attorney

Accidentally?
Color me skeptical.
The Democrats are criminal, treasonous and sleazy.
They gave this jihadi unfettered access to national security secrets.
He then transferred the data to Pakistan.
And the most powerful Democrats continue to protect jihad-treason.
The Democrat leadership collusion with Muslim spies is the biggest story of treason and espionage in the recent memory.
As the scandal widens and worsens, the media goes to extraordinary lengths not to cover it.
take our poll - story continues below
Whom do you consider to be the most corrupt Democrat Politician?
Whom do you consider to be the most corrupt Democrat Politician?
Whom do you consider to be the most corrupt Democrat Politician?
* Dianne Feinstein Maxine Waters Adam Schiff Chuck Schumer Kamala Harris Kirsten Gillibrand Keith Ellison Cory Booker
Email *
Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Completing this poll grants you access to Freedom Outpost updates free of charge.
You may opt out at anytime.
You also agree to this site's Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
Hellbent to destroy President Trump, they toil in Soviet fictions and titillating porn stories.
House investigators found the House server was being used for nefarious purposes and the alleged Muslim spies were removing information and sending it for foreign actors.
The aides named are Imran Awan, his wife Hina Alvi, his brothers Abid and Jamal, and his friend Rao Abbas, Pakistani-born aides.
Now we hear the father of Muslim spy ring Imran Awan transferred a USB drive to a Pakistani senator and former head of a Pakistani intelligence agency.
CAPITOL POLICE ACCIDENTALLY GAVE EVIDENCE TO HOUSE HACKING SUSPECT’S DEFENSE ATTORNEY By Luke Rosiak on May 24, 2018:
The House IG said Democratic IT aides made unauthorized access to data, but prosecutors haven’t charged them
Democrats appear to want to keep the case out of court; a trial could expose their reckless IT practices
Capitol Police didn’t make arrests despite numerous red flags and then ‘inadvertently’ gave evidence to defense attorneys that was supposed to go to prosecutors
Prosecutors appear to be sharing info with someone on Capitol Hill who is leaking details to the hacking suspect’s lawyer
The Capitol Police turned over a trove of evidence in the alleged Imran Awan House cyberbreach and theft case to the defense attorneys when they were supposed to deliver it to prosecutors instead, according to court documents and a source.
And hours after The Daily Caller News Foundation asked prosecutors about the disclosure, Awan’s lawyer said he had learned of the forthcoming story from a source on Capitol Hill.
TheDCNF had not told anyone other than prosecutors about it.
“The cop came to [Awan’s defense attorney] Chris Gowen’s office with a stack of papers … Then he came back and said, ‘I thought you guys were the other party.’ He was very, very angry.
But Gowen made copies,” the source, who’s familiar with The Awans, told TheDCNF.
Awan, three relatives and a friend ran IT for one in five House Democrats and could read all their emails and files until they were banned on Feb. 2, 2017, for “numerous violations of House security policies.” The violations alleged by the House Office of Inspector General include logging into the House Democratic Caucus server thousands of times without authorization.
This allegedly occurred during the same period in 2016 the DNC was hacked.
Prosecutor Michael Marando alluded to the disclosure of evidence in court on Oct. 6, 2017.
Article posted with permission from Pamela Geller
