After seeing the aftermath of a multi-vehicle collision on Interstate 85 Friday afternoon, many people are amazed to learn that only minor injuries were reported in the crash.WYFF News 4's Patrick Hussion was at the scene of the crash. After seeing the twisted wreckage, when he learned the injuries were minor, he said, "It's a miracle."The crash involved a tractor-trailer and at least four other vehicles, one that appeared destroyed. It appeared that the truck crossed from the southbound lanes across the median and into the northbound lanes.The tractor trailer was hauling automobiles. All of the vehicles that were being transported remained on the trailer.Pictures from the scene of the wreckThe crash was reported just before 1 p.m. in the northbound lanes of I-85 near the Boiling Springs Road/Highway 9, near exit 76. All lanes in both direction were blocked shortly after 1 p.m. At 2 p.m., one southbound lane was reopened, moments after a man was extricated from one of the vehicles. That man waved his arm as he was loaded into an ambulance.EMS were still trying to extricate victims from the vehicles up until about 2 p.m.By shortly after 2:30 p.m., the vehicles had all been removed from the scene and traffic returned to normal.Lance Cpl. Bill Rhyne confirmed late Friday afternoon that there were only minor injuries in the crash.

After seeing the aftermath of a multi-vehicle collision on Interstate 85 Friday afternoon, many people are amazed to learn that only minor injuries were reported in the crash.

WYFF News 4's Patrick Hussion was at the scene of the crash. After seeing the twisted wreckage, when he learned the injuries were minor, he said, "It's a miracle."

Advertisement

The crash involved a tractor-trailer and at least four other vehicles, one that appeared destroyed. It appeared that the truck crossed from the southbound lanes across the median and into the northbound lanes.

The tractor trailer was hauling automobiles. All of the vehicles that were being transported remained on the trailer.

Pictures from the scene of the wreck

The crash was reported just before 1 p.m. in the northbound lanes of I-85 near the Boiling Springs Road/Highway 9, near exit 76. All lanes in both direction were blocked shortly after 1 p.m.

At 2 p.m., one southbound lane was reopened, moments after a man was extricated from one of the vehicles. That man waved his arm as he was loaded into an ambulance.

EMS were still trying to extricate victims from the vehicles up until about 2 p.m.

By shortly after 2:30 p.m., the vehicles had all been removed from the scene and traffic returned to normal.

Lance Cpl. Bill Rhyne confirmed late Friday afternoon that there were only minor injuries in the crash.