New Delhi: Amid controversy over a media report quoting National Investigating Agency (NIA) chief Sharad Kumar on a Pakistani link to the Pathankot attack, the Ministry of External Affairs on Friday asserted that "involvement of Pakistan`s nationals in the Pathankot Air Base attack is an accepted fact".

The Indian government has also asserted that "enough information" on the involvement of Pakistanis has been provided to Islamabad.

"I understand that DG NIA has issued a clarification that his words are being misinterpreted. Let me clarify the position. The involvement of Pakistan`s nationals in the Pathankot Air Base attack is an accepted fact," MEA spokesman Vikas Swarup said here in a statement.

"I would remind you that investigations are ongoing. Foreign Secretary had conveyed to his Pakistani counterpart when they met in New Delhi in April that it was time for review of progress in investigation in the attack after return of Pakistan`s JIT, which had gathered all evidence that it had wanted when it visited India," the spokesman said.

He further said "enough information" has also been provided to Pakistani authorities through two Letters Rogatory to conduct investigation in Pakistan so that "all those associated in Pakistan with planning, support and execution of the attack are brought to justice".

"At this stage, we await further response and information from Pakistan. It would be injudicious to speculate in this situation," the spokesman added.

According to a TV channel, DG NIA had given clean chit to Pakistan government but the top NIA official later denied making any such statement.

Last month the Interpol has issued a Red Corner Notice against Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorist Shahid Latif who has been termed as "one of the crucial handlers" of the Pathankot airbase attackers by the NIA.

A five-member joint investigating team (JIT) from Pakistan visited India in March to probe the Pathankot attack in which Jaish-e-Mohamed militants attacked the Indian air base on January 2 and killed seven security personnel. The attack has led to a downslide in bilateral ties.