A Royal Navy officer cadet raped a fellow student following a college ball when she was “too drunk to fight back or give consent”, a court martial has heard.

Samuel Mitchell, 27, who is now a sub-lieutenant, is accused of going into the cadet’s room at the Britannia Royal Naval College in Dartmouth, Devon, following a Victory In Europe day dinner dance attended by students, staff and guests.

David Richards, prosecuting, told the court martial centre at Portsmouth naval base that the alleged victim was carried back to her room by friends after she had drunk too much at the event. He said she consumed four glasses of Pimms, a glass of red wine, some champagne, and a double gin and tonic.

While she was sleeping, the defendant entered her room, undressed himself and her, and then climbed on top of her, the court heard.

Richards said the complainant was so drunk and afraid that she had been unable to fight back and was “lolling around” during the incident. She had also crossed her arms across her chest and said “no sex” to Mitchell, the court heard. When she awoke in the morning she was in a “cold sweat and shaking”, it is claimed.

The court was told Mitchell described himself as having a “high sex drive”. Richards said: “He went to the officer cadet’s room determined to have sex, she didn’t fight, she didn’t kick, she didn’t scream, she was affected by drink and shocked by what he was doing. She did a limited attempt to push him away but she remained lifeless.”

In an attempt to get him to stop, the complainant asked Mitchell to put a condom on, which led him to go back to his room and return with the contraceptive before continuing with the alleged rape.

Richards said: “We are all entitled to do what we want with our bodies, we are entitled to decide whether we have sexual intercourse, that is what is meant by consent.

“Both of them had been drinking that night, drunken consent is nonetheless consent provided the complainant has not lost the capability to choose to have sex.

“The prosecution case is that she didn’t consent at all, it is the prosecution case the defendant knew full well she had been drinking. He knew she was drunk and that her passivity didn’t reflect a choice she had made but the fact that she didn’t have the wherewithal to resist him.”

Richards added: “He wasn’t concerned about her lack of response, he just took what he could.”

Mitchell denies two counts of rape in May 2015.

In a police interview, Mitchell said the woman flirted with him during the evening and “said goodbye with a wink”.

He also said she made up the rape allegation because she was frightened of the impact on her career of having sex in her room, which was against the rules.

He told police that “because she was a bit of a brown-nose, when she heard people were talking about the sex, she must have panicked”.

The trial continues.