Nov 29, 2015; Atlanta, GA, USA; Minnesota Vikings wide receiver Stefon Diggs (14) runs after a catch against Atlanta Falcons cornerback Jalen Collins (32) in the first quarter of their game at the Georgia Dome. Mandatory Credit: Jason Getz-USA TODAY Sports

Now that the draft and heavy lifting of free agency is over, Vegas has released the betting lines for all 2016-17 Minnesota Vikings games.

As mentioned in previous articles, the national media is starting to take notice of the Minnesota Vikings and how talented their roster is. If you watch the Vegas betting lines, a lot of times they are pretty close to right on. The sports books have some pretty talented people developing these lines.

After a surprising season last year, at least surprising for non-Vikings fans, the team will look to build on last year’s success. If not for a botched field goal, the Vikings would have had a chance to make a deep postseason push. With few holes on this team, they seemed to address most of them and add needed depth in the draft and free agency.

It looks like this team will build on last season’s success, and Vegas seems to think so too. This morning Cantor Technology released their betting lines for all NFL regular season games through Week 16.

Here is the lines for the Minnesota Vikings Week 1- Week 16 games:

Week 1

Minnesota (-3, 43) at Tennessee Titans

Week 2

Green Bay Packers at Minnesota (PK)

Week 3

Minnesota at Carolina Panthers (-5.5)

Week 4

New York Giants at Minnesota (-6)

Week 5

Houston Texans at Minnesota (-6)

Week 6

BYE

Week 7

Minnesota (-1.5) at Philadelphia Eagles

Week 8

Minnesota (-2.5) at Chicago Bears

Week 9

Detroit Lions at Minnesota (-6.5)

Week 10

Minnesota (-1.5) at Washington Redskins

Week 11

Arizona Cardinals at Minnesota (-1.5)

Week 12

Minnesota (-2.5) at Detroit Lions

Week 13

Dallas Cowboys at Minnesota (-4.5)

Week 14

Minnesota (-2.5) at Jacksonville Jaguars

Week 15

Indianapolis Colts at Minnesota (-4)

Week 16

Minnesota at Green Bay Packers (-4.5)

For some reason, they released their lines for Weeks 1- 16, and left out the last game of the season, against Chicago. But, if you read between the lines, they have the Minnesota Vikings favored in 12 of the 15 games listed. The final regular season game is at Chicago and at home, so we can assume they will be favored in that game since they were favored in Soldier Field.

So we can look at this as the Minnesota Vikings being favored in 13 of their 16 games this season. This is an amazing compliment from a Vegas sports book. The only games they are not favored in are against the NFC Champion Carolina Panthers and when they play the Green Bay Packers at Lambeau Field. The first matchup with the Packers in U.S. Bank Stadium is a pick em.

A projected record with at least 13 wins sounds good like a lot, but this team is just that talented. Plus, Vegas usually wins so you might not want to bet against them.