AKRON, Ohio -- William Montague, the former head of the Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center, is scheduled to be sentenced to prison Friday, more than two years after he pleaded guilty to 64 corruption-related charges.

Montague, 64, will be the final defendant as part of a wide-ranging FBI investigation into Cuyahoga County's pay-to-play political system. More than 60 government officials, employees and contractors were charged as part of the case.

He pleaded guilty in 2014 to defrauding the VA through bribery and kickback schemes where he accepted tens of thousands of dollars from contractors in exchange for inside information.

U.S. District Judge Sara Lioi in Akron will sentence the Brecksville resident Friday afternoon.

In a sentencing memorandum filed last week, Montague's attorneys asked for a prison sentence of four years, three months in prison. He has also agreed to pay nearly $390,000 in forfeitures, restitution and fees.

Montague is free on bond.

(You can read the sentencing memo here or at the bottom of this story.)

Montague, who headed the Cleveland VA between 1995 and 2010 and later headed the VA in Dayton, gave confidential information to the New York firm CannonDesign which gave the company a leg up when bidding on projects.

As part of his plea agreement, he testified against Mark Farmer, then a CannonDesign architect who bribed Montague for the confidential information. A jury found Farmer guilty in August and he is now serving a 33-month prison sentence.

Montague also gave confidential information to electrical contractor Michael Forlani, the former owner of Doan Pyramid Electric in Cleveland, and head of Veterans Development LLC.

Veterans Development LLC was selected by the Department of Veterans Affairs in 2005 to develop and manage the consolidation of the VA's Brecksville campus with an enlarged campus near University Circle.

The development included a new administration building and parking garage at East Boulevard and East 105th Street, adjacent to the VA hospital. A 122-bed dwelling for homeless veterans was privately financed.

Forlani is serving an eight-year prison term for racketeering, bribery and other corruption-related crimes.

The U.S. inspector general in 2012 concluded that the decision to consolidate the VA centers was "fundamentally flawed." The inspector general said the consolidation, instead of saving money, would cost the VA nearly $500 million over the next 20 years.

If you want to comment on this story, please visit Friday's court and crime comments section.