Clubbing

Bible verses about clubbing

Many new believers ask is clubbing a sin? The answer is yes, Christians should not go to clubs plain and simple. All you find at nightclubs is sin. You will find drunkenness, devilish music, promiscuous women and men, devilish dancing, fighting, and more devilish things. The club scene is of the devil and it glorifies God in no way shape or form. Scripture tells us to abstain from all appearance of evil, but it is clearly appearing evil. Scripture tells us do not be conformed to the world, but it is being a friend of the world.

If Jesus came down from Heaven and stood in front of you looking in your eyes while you were in the club line you would drop down and cry. God sees all the things you do. How do you think God feels about you doing things that He hates? False believers go to nightclubs on a Saturday then on a Sunday go to church and think God is OK with that. God is holy and just, He has to punish evil people. The Christianity of the end times is so deceitful. People are living in a continuous lifestyle of sin one day then going to church the next to play Christian.

Are you willing to deny yourself? Most people these days who profess Jesus as Lord will one day hear I never knew you depart from me you workers of lawlessness. You know what’s at the club and you know God hates it. You know bad company corrupts good morals and you know being in that environment will bring temptation. Many people want to find anything they can to justify sin, but when in front of God there is no more excuses.

I turn on the news and I always hear about someone getting shot at the club or a drunk driving accident when returning from the club. If they would have done something positive would that have happened? Take up the cross daily and live for the Lord not yourself. Always remember this, we don’t obey Christ because it saves us we obey Christ because He saved us. Please when you’re done refresh yourself with the gospel by clicking on the link at the top of the page.

Set apart

1. Romans 12:1-2 Brothers and sisters, in view of all we have just shared about God’s compassion, I encourage you to offer your bodies as living sacrifices, dedicated to God and pleasing to him. This kind of worship is appropriate for you. Don’t become like the people of this world. Instead, change the way you think. Then you will always be able to determine what God really wants—what is good, pleasing, and perfect.

2. 1 Peter 1:13-15 Therefore, your minds must be clear and ready for action. Place your confidence completely in what God’s kindness will bring you when Jesus Christ appears again. Because you are children who obey God, don’t live the kind of lives you once lived. Once you lived to satisfy your desires because you didn’t know any better. But because the God who called you is holy, you must be holy in every aspect of your life.

3. James 4:4 You people are not faithful to God! You should know that loving what the world has is the same as hating God. So anyone who wants to be friends with this evil world becomes God’s enemy.

Do God’s will

4. Ephesians 5:15-18 Therefore be very careful how you live—not as unwise but as wise, taking advantage of every opportunity, because the days are evil. For this reason do not be foolish, but be wise by understanding what the Lord’s will is. And do not get drunk with wine, which is debauchery, but be filled by the Spirit.

5. 1 Thessalonians 4:3-5 God wants you to be holy. He wants you to stay away from sexual sins. God wants each one of you to learn to control your own body. Use your body in a way that is holy and that gives honor to God. Don’t let your sexual desires control you like the people who don’t know God.

6. Ephesians 5:8-10 For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Live as children of light (for the fruit of the light consists in all goodness, righteousness and truth) and find out what pleases the Lord.

Party animals will not enter into Heaven.

7. Galatians 5:19-21 When you follow the desires of your sinful nature, the results are very clear: sexual immorality, impurity, lustful pleasures, idolatry, sorcery, hostility, quarreling, jealousy, outbursts of anger, selfish ambition, dissension, division, envy, drunkenness, wild parties, and other sins like these. Let me tell you again, as I have before, that anyone living that sort of life will not inherit the Kingdom of God.

8. 2 Thessalonians 1:8-9 in flaming fire, bringing judgment on those who don’t know God and on those who refuse to obey the Good News of our Lord Jesus. They will be punished with eternal destruction, forever separated from the Lord and from his glorious power.

9. Romans 2:8 But for those who are self-seeking and who reject the truth and follow evil, there will be wrath and anger.

Hate evil

10. Romans 13:13 Because we belong to the day, we must live decent lives for all to see. Don’t participate in the darkness of wild parties and drunkenness, or in sexual promiscuity and immoral living, or in quarreling and jealousy.

11. Psalm 97:10 Let those who love the LORD hate evil, for he guards the lives of his faithful ones and delivers them from the hand of the wicked.

12. Romans 12:9 Love must be sincere. Hate what is evil; cling to what is good.

13. 1 Peter 4:3 You have had enough in the past of the evil things that godless people enjoy–their immorality and lust, their feasting and drunkenness and wild parties, and their terrible worship of idols.

Reminders

14. Ephesians 4:23-24 to be made new in the attitude of your minds; and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness.

15. Ecclesiastes 7:17 Be not overly wicked, neither be a fool. Why should you die before your time?

16. Ecclesiastes 12:1 Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them

17. John 9:31 Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth.

18. Matthew 18:8-9 So if your hand or foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It’s better to enter eternal life with only one hand or one foot than to be thrown into eternal fire with both of your hands and feet. And if your eye causes you to sin, gouge it out and throw it away. It’s better to enter eternal life with only one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into the fire of hell.

19. Ephesians 6:11-12 Put on the full armor of God, so that you can take your stand against the devil’s schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms.

Last days

20. 2 Timothy 3:1-5 But understand this, that in the last days there will come times of difficulty. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people.