Seth Dickerson

sdickerson@gannett.com

Iberia Parish Sheriff Louis Ackal is facing additional federal charges stemming from more beatings that took place in the Iberia Parish Jail, allegedly ordered by the sheriff and two of his top deputies.

U.S. Attorney Stephanie Finley announced Thursday Ackal, Lt. Col. Gerald Savoy and former Capt. Mark Frederick would face additional charges in a superseding indictment from the beatings of two more men.

Ackal was indicted Thursday on an additional count of conspiracy against rights for allegedly conspiring in April 2014 to assault a man who had been arrested on battery charges for allegedly assaulting one of the sheriff's relatives. Savoy and Frederick were charged with one count of deprivation of civil rights for taking part in a beating inside the jail's chapel in September 2011.

According to court records, Ackal called a meeting between himself, the relative, Savoy and narcotics agents Benjamin Lassalle and David Hines.

ACKAL: Iberia Sheriff accused of civil rights violation pleads not guilty

Ackal ordered Hines and Lassalle to arrest the person for assaulting the sheriff's relative. Hines and Lassalle found and arrested that person, allegedly pinned them to the floor and beat them with a baton.

During the inmate's first week in the jail, Ackal allegedly ordered the inmate brought to him.

Once in Ackal's office, Savoy allegedly grabbed the inmate's arm, twisting it behind his back.

Ackal allegedly yelled, "You want to (expletive) with my family?"

MORE: 9th deputy charged, for lying to FBI agent, in Iberia inmate beating

Ackal and Savoy had previously been charged in reference to the April 2011 beatings of three pre-trial inmates at the jail. According to the indictment of Ackal and Savoy released by the U.S. Attorney's Office, Ackal ordered Lassalle to "take care of" one of the detainees after that detainee made a lewd comment.

Lassalle and Hayes, accompanied by other officers, then brought the detainee to the jail's chapel, where he was beat multiple times with a baton.

Nine former IPSO employees previously entered guilty pleas in related cases. Most recently, K9 Sgt. Jeremy Hatley pleaded guilty to lying to an FBI agent during an investigation into the beatings.

Ackal, Savoy and Frederick could face 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine for each count.