Roger Naylor

Special for The Republic

If ever the thought of a relaxing, carefree day at the beach sounded good, it’s this year. And if ever the thought of jumping on a plane and jetting off to some tropical paradise sounded like a crowded ordeal, this is also the year.

Water, sand and sun sounds very enticing right about now. Fortunately, Arizona has a surprising amount of beachfront property for those needing a little post-lockdown relief.

With lots of people fully vaccinated, communities around Arizona have reopened. It's still not a bad idea to keep social distancing in mind. And be patient. Some facilities may not be fully open. Some parks and beaches may experience temporary closures. If you have questions, call ahead before starting out.

Then let’s hit the beach.

Yuma

Yuma has done an amazing job cleaning up and revamping its waterfront in an effort to reconnect to the Colorado River. Gateway Park was part of that development. Sitting at the end of Madison Avenue, the park has picnic ramadas, a grassy area, playground for the kids, fishing piers and a sandy beach with a gradual entry into the water. Located under the Ocean to Ocean Bridge, the span provides a swath of welcome shade.

Just downriver from Gateway, the West Wetlands features two popular beaches. Centennial Beach was established in 2014 with sand dredged from the Colorado River. Playa Linda opened in 2018. What once was the city dump is now a sandy expanse with an accessible ramp, seating wall and grassy area. Trails lead along the river through heavy woods and a canopy of cooling shade. Above the beaches are a small lake, picnic ramadas and restrooms. Yuma River Tubing offers one-hour float trips between the East and West Wetlands for $10. 928-750-0247, https://www.yumarivertubing.com.

Details: https://www.yumaaz.gov/parks-and-recreation.

Buckskin Mountain State Park

Four state parks cling to the edge of the Colorado River between Parker and Lake Havasu City, accessed from State Route 95. Buckskin Mountain straddles a picturesque section of river, a beautiful combination of stony mountains and sparkling water. A slender beach fringes most of the shoreline and swimming is permitted. But as is the case at virtually all Arizona beaches, no lifeguard is on duty. Swim at your own risk and keep a vigilant eye on children. Overnighters can enjoy a shady campground, cabana sites and hiking trails.

Details: 5476 State Route 95, Parker. $10 per vehicle. 928-667-3231, https://azstateparks.com/buckskin.

River Island State Park

Nearby River Island State Park nestles in a sloping bowl at the base of stark mountains that rise from the riverbank. An intimate beach sits next to the boat ramp and just beyond the campground with a grassy lawn that’s perfect for tents. Sprawling mesquite trees offer a dollop of shade at the edge of the beach. The short but scenic Wedge Hill Trail climbs the rocky slopes above for staggering views.

Details: 5200 SR 95, Parker. $10 per vehicle. 928-667-3386, https://azstateparks.com/river-island.

Cattail Cove State Park

Hugging the southern edge of Lake Havasu, Cattail Cove State Park protects a long piece of scenic shoreline. Swimming is allowed in the roped-off area adjacent to the beach. There are also some small, secluded beaches for those willing to take a short hike downstream and even a dog beach just south of the boat ramp. Other trails ramble across gaunt desert hills. The campground includes RV and tent sites as well as boat-in sites.

Details: 15 miles south of Lake Havasu City on SR 95. $15 per vehicle Fridays-Sundays and holidays, $10 other days. 928-855-1223, https://azstateparks.com/cattail-cove.

Lake Havasu State Park

At nearly 11,000 acres, Lake Havasu is by far the largest of western Arizona's parks. And right in the heart of Lake Havasu City, just upstream from London Bridge, it’s also the busiest. Windsor Beach, a long stretch of white sand, is the main attraction. There’s a day use picnic area at the beach. The park has campsites for RVs and tents as well as 13 air-conditioned rental cabins. Boat and jet ski rentals are available from the park concessionaire, Wet Monkey Powersport Rentals (928-855-2022, https://www.wetmonkeyrentals.com). To avoid overcrowding, the park may implement occasional day-use closures.

Details: 699 London Bridge Road, Lake Havasu City. $20 per vehicle Fridays-Sundays and holidays, $15 other days. 928-855-2784, https://azstateparks.com/lake-havasu.

Lake Havasu City

Lake Havasu City also offers free public beaches. Rotary Beach is a 40-acre park with picnic areas, barbecues, multiple play areas, a skate park and designated swim area. Its location inside the 5 mph no-wake zone of Thompson Bay makes for calm waters.

London Bridge Beach may be Arizona’s most ocean-like beach with its swaying palm trees and seagull wings flashing white in the sun. It’s on Bridgewater Channel, a spit of sand fronting the water with a view of the famous bridge. But it also spreads out along the edge of the sparkling lake and includes playgrounds, picnic areas, a walking path, a grassy park with big shade trees, volleyball courts and an enclosed dog park. A wide swath of sand surrounds the palms and a designated swim area. With small waves lapping the shore and gulls crying overhead, it’s easy to forget you never left the state.

Details: https://www.golakehavasu.com.

Patagonia Lake State Park

Tucked away amid the rolling hills of southern Arizona, Patagonia Lake State Park is a shimmering oasis in the high desert. And since water is scarce around these parts, the 265-acre man-made lake draws summer visitors from all across southern Arizona and northern Mexico looking to cool off. There’s a roped-off swim area at Boulder Beach, a modest plot of sand. But swimming is allowed in any part of the lake except boat launch areas. Boating, water skiing and fishing are also popular activities. To avoid overcrowding, the park may experience temporary day-use closures.

Details: 400 Patagonia Lake Road, south of Patagonia. $20 per vehicle Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, $15 Mondays-Fridays. 520-287-6965, https://azstateparks.com/patagonia-lake.

Roper Lake State Park

Popular with anglers, Roper Lake State Park also has 5 miles of trails, cabins, a campground and a picnic area. Sitting just south of Safford, visitors enjoy views of mighty Mount Graham while fishing the 30-acre lake for largemouth bass, channel catfish, crappie and bluegill. There’s a small swimming beach. Sadly, the natural stone hot tub bubbling with mineral spring water has been permanently closed.

Details: 101 E. Roper Lake Road, Safford. $10 per vehicle. 928-428-6760, https://azstateparks.com/roper-lake.

Lake Powell

Before you go: Know that the Navajo Reservation, which abuts Page and Lake Powell, is in the process of reopening to tourism. Expect mask requirements and limited capacity at tribal parks. Find out more at https://www.navajo-nsn.gov.

With 1,900 miles of shoreline, Lake Powell harbors countless remote beaches amid a colorful labyrinth of canyons. There are even a few beaches that don’t require a boat.

Wahweap Beach sits just south of the Stateline launch ramp. Services at Wahweap Marina include lodging, restaurants, campgrounds and boat rentals. Guided boat tours of the lake have been discontinued during the pandemic.

Details: A Glen Canyon National Recreation Area pass is required; $30 per vehicle, good for seven days: https://www.nps.gov/glca/planyourvisit/fees.htm. Wahweap Marina: 888-896-3829, www.lakepowell.com.

The Chains is a day-use beach in Page that can be accessed from U.S. 89 just east of the bridge over Glen Canyon Dam. A dirt road leads to a parking area that sits above the lake, so some scrambling is required. The beach is mostly sandstone. Of course, how accessible it is depends on the water level in the lake.

Details: Free. 928-608-6200, www.nps.gov/glca.

Find the reporter at www.rogernaylor.com. Or follow him on Facebook at www.facebook.com/RogerNaylorinAZ or Twitter @AZRogerNaylor.