'There's just no money coming in': Cannabis sector bracing for wave of insolvencies in 2020

Share this Story: 'There's just no money coming in': Cannabis sector bracing for wave of insolvencies in 2020

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

'There's just no money coming in': Cannabis sector bracing for wave of insolvencies in 2020 Oversupply, declining prices, and a slow rollout of stores in Ontario has led to consecutive quarters of weak revenue for many licensed producers Photo by Blair Gable/Reuters files

Article content Cannabis industry insiders are bracing for a slew of bankruptcies in the coming year as small and medium-sized companies low on cash struggle to raise funds in the downtrodden sector.

Advertisement 2 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

Article content “We have had a busy few years, but next year we’re going to be busy for a different reason — we expect a few million dollars in legal fees from insolvencies and consolidation,” said Ranjeev Dhillon, a partner at McCarthy Tetrault LLP and the firm’s cannabis group lead. We apologize, but this video has failed to load.

tap here to see other videos from our team. Try refreshing your browser, or 'There's just no money coming in': Cannabis sector bracing for wave of insolvencies in 2020 Back to video Dhillon says that his team is already seeing companies that are heading down that path.

Advertisement 3 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

Article content There are currently more than 200 cannabis companies either in the cultivation, processing or extraction businesses, primarily supplying a domestic market that has yet to cross the $1 billion mark in annual sales. Although cannabis sales have been increasing on a monthly basis since legalization in October 2018, inventory has been growing much more quickly, resulting in oversupply and declining prices. That dynamic, coupled with a slow rollout in the number of cannabis stores in Ontario — which, to a large extent, choked the supply chain — has led to consecutive quarters of weak revenue for many licensed producers. “We are definitely going to see some companies struggle. We’ve already seen two companies file for bankruptcy protection, and they certainly won’t be the last,” said Greg Engel, CEO of Organigram Holdings Inc., which has also been hit by slumping sales.

Advertisement 4 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

Article content In December, Wayland Group Corp., one of the first pot companies to obtain a cultivation licence, filed for creditor protection. Two months earlier, DionyMed Brands Inc. had entered into receivership after failing to repay debt. “Companies that don’t have a good cost structure will be in a really difficult position. It’s not about growing cannabis anymore, it’s about how efficient you are as a consumer packaged goods producer,” Engel added. It’s not about growing cannabis anymore, it’s about how efficient you are as a consumer packaged goods producer Greg Engel, CEO of Organigram Holdings For Narbe Alexandrian, CEO of Canopy Rivers Inc., the venture capital arm of Canopy Growth Corp., the ongoing lack of institutional investor interest is the sector’s biggest red flag going into 2020. “There’s just no money coming in, so if you have a low cash balance, you might be in trouble,” Alexandrian said. “We haven’t seen the blood on the streets yet.”

Advertisement 5 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

Article content Quebec licensed producer Hexo Corp. saw its stock price plunge 20 per cent over the holiday period after it announced a discounted equity raise of US$25 million on Dec. 26. The company issued 15 million new shares at a price that was approximately 14 per cent below its closing price before markets closed on Christmas Eve. The company had previously raised $70 million through a convertible debt deal, and introduced a new discounted dried flower product called Original Stash (priced roughly 50 per cent below market value), in an effort to boost its cash position. Photo by Chris Roussakis/Bloomberg files Pablo Zuanic, an analyst with Cantor Fitzgerald called the deal “surprising.” “Given the company had raised $70 million in convertible debentures after the October quarter, and had entered into an after-market facility to raise equity, we wonder about the need for these extra $32 million proceeds,” he wrote in a note to clients.

Advertisement 6 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

Article content CIBC pot analyst John Zamparo had earlier forecast that Hexo’s “burn rate” of approximately $45 million per quarter suggested that the company would need additional funds by June 2020, or risk operating with just $5 million in cash. Though he declined to name specific companies that could possibly face bankruptcy in 2020, McCarthy’s Dhillon said that he “wouldn’t be surprised if some of the more well-known licensed producers run into major cash issues.” “You might be able to borrow money, but it will be very restricted, onerous terms. I think that’s when you’ll start seeing the private equity players and hedge funds get more involved because they’ll be able to strip these companies of assets that don’t make sense and restructure,” Dhillon added.

Advertisement 7 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

Article content The rollout of major new product lines as part of the legalization of edibles presents a significant risk to producers. Most of the major licensed producers — Canopy Growth Corp., Hexo and Tilray — have invested heavily in cannabis-infused drinks that will hit the market in the first quarter of 2020, but some industry observers are predicting that beverages might be a failed venture altogether. Photo by Julie Oliver/Postmedia files “When you look at the established markets in the U.S. — California, Oregon and Colorado — beverages are just two per cent of those markets. They never really took off,” said Jerome Hass of Lightwater Partners Ltd. Hass believes that certain licensed producers are vastly overstating the impact beverages will have on overall sales. He says his company invested in a small brewery in Waterloo, Ont., that he once thought would be a “perfect play” for cannabis-infused drinks.

Advertisement 8 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

Article content “They had a canning facility, and excess capacity so we thought these guys would be a prime beneficiary of cannabis 2.0. But management recently told us they spoke to a number of major LPs about the process of making cannabis drinks and decided the opportunity wasn’t worth their time,” Hass said. A key aspect to the success of cannabis-infused drinks and edibles are the onset and offset times — how long it will take for the consumer to feel the “high” from the product, and subsequently, to sober up. “Most companies are making gummies, chocolates, candies, drinks. So where the true innovation comes in will be who masters the onset and offset,” said Alexandrian, though he admits that many companies have been spreading themselves too thin in the race to offer up a variety of cannabis 2.0 products. “I’m not sure yet what products will do well. It’s too early to tell. But the test for the industry going forward, next year and beyond, will be which companies can survive as consumer packaged goods companies. They need to be dead-set focused on how to deliver the best experience for the consumer. Those are the companies to invest in,” he said. Financial Post • Email: vsubramaniam@nationalpost.com | Twitter: VanmalaS

Share this article in your social network

Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

Financial Post Top Stories Sign up to receive the daily top stories from the Financial Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Financial Post Top Stories will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again