This article contains affiliate links through which DrunkWooky.com may earn a commission. Learn more from our disclosure statement here.



Hot Toys have shared final product images of the 1/6 Scale Aquaman figure from photobloggers, check them out below!

Many people are day one pre-order types who watch Hot Toys like hawks, jump on every announcement, and are placing their deposit with Sideshow the day pre-orders go live. Other Hot Toys collectors plan, wait, and consider. The day final product images are released by Hot Toys is the real decision-making day in the mind of that latter set of collectors.

As Hot Toys makes abundantly clear in their disclaimers, things can change between the solicit prototype photos and the production model. This is the day we see what fell by the wayside and what managed to make it into production. What headsculpt changes, costume changes, and accessory changes (if any) were made.

Hot Toys released an album of over 40 final product photos of the 1/6 Scale Aquaman figure yesterday! Check out the full gallery from Hot Toys Photographers, Kindar, Siuping, and Ultraben.

Aquaman is still available for pre-order through Sideshow for $243 and is slated for release Quarter 1 2020 (as early as this month)!

The scaling on that armor looks fantastic! Especially, the gauntlets. The cod (pun intended) bulge looks, er, fishy (pun also intended).











































































【Aquaman – 1/6th scale Aquaman Collectible Figure Final Product Photos】

“I came because I have no choice. I came to save my home, and the people that I love.”

The son of a lighthouse keeper and an Atlantean queen, Arthur Curry is the bridge between the surface world and his tumultuous realm of the sea. When Arthur finally took the throne as an adult, he became the most legendary king in Atlantean history. Today, Hot Toys is proud to unveil the final product of the 1/6th scale collectible figure of Aquaman from the underwater.

The figure is crafted based on the appearance of Jason Momoa as Arthur Curry/Aquaman in the movie of the same title, including a newly painted head sculpt with detailed long hair sculpture, a specialized body portraying Aquaman’s muscular body with enhanced articulations, a classic Aquaman costume with the signature gold and green color scheme, an movie-accurate Trident, and a dynamic figure stand features ocean themed diorama!

Don’t forget to check out these astonishing images featuring the King of Atlantis by our fabulous bloggers!

#HotToys #Collectibles #SixthScale #DCComics #Aquaman #ArthurCurry #JasonMomoa

Share this: Twitter

Facebook

Reddit

