A trio of incoming Penn State football freshmen are in contention to complete their prep career with a prestigious statewide honor. Linebackers Tyler Elsdon and Zuriah Fisher, along with offensive lineman Nick Dawkins, are among candidates for Mr. Pennsylvania Football.

The selection process consists of 25 players representing programs from Class 1A-3A (including Elsdon and Fisher), and another 25 representing Class 4A-6A (including Dawkins). Last year, the award went to current Penn State freshman cornerback Daequan Hardy (4A-6A) and freshly enrolled Ohio State receiver Julian Fleming (1A-3A).

The list of recent Mr. Pennsylvania Football recipients includes eventual Nittany Lions such as Saquon Barkley, Miles Sanders and Lamont Wade.

Voting for the 2020 winners is now open (1A-3A HERE; 4A-6A HERE). Fans, media and coaches each account for one-third of the total vote.

Dawkins, who attends Parkland (Allentown) High School, is evaluated by 247Sports as the top interior offensive lineman in Pennsylvania's 2020 class. He developed into a class leader for the Nittany Lions following an April commitment and will enroll early.

A frequent competitor at Penn State prospect camps this summer, improvement was apparent during Dawkins' final prep campaign. An All-Eastern Pennsylvania Conference first-team selection, he piled up 28 pancake blocks as a senior. Along the way, Dawkins climbed to No. 22 nationally among guards in 247Sports rankings.

He is the son of former NBA standout Darryl Dawkins, who was drafted fifth overall by the Philadelphia 76ers in 1975 and passed away in 2015.

"I gotta build this legacy of my last name," Dawkins told Lions247. "I grew up in Pennsylvania, I love Pennsylvania sports, and, at Penn State, I don't care where I have to play on the line or anything like that. As long as I work and get on the field. ... It's all about the work you put in."

Listen to a preseason conversation with Dawkins on the Lions247 Podcast...

Elsdon was raised to support the Penn Sate football program and attended multiple camp sessions, putting in extra work with Nittany Lions linebackers coach and defensive coordinator Brent Pry, to land on the team's target board this summer. He didn't hesitate to join this class when that door opened.

“My whole family is Penn State," he told Lions247 following his commitment. "I’ve always grown up around it. I’ve seen games. It’s a pretty easy drive and I’ve been up there many times.”

Nittany Lions head coach James Franklin spotlighted Elsdon, a product of North Schuylkill (Ashland) High School, during his Signing Day press conference.

"Tyler Elsdon, I think, is a throwback," Franklin said. "He's a guy that earned it. Senior year film is tremendous, (he) came to camp going into his senior year, did a great job. He's a lot more athletic than I think people realize. Put up great numbers for us in camp."

Elsdon received a four-star bump from 247Sports during his senior season, which included 88 tackles — 15 for loss — five sacks and three forced fumbles. His upperclassman production was headlined by 203 tackles — 38 for loss — and 12 sacks, spurring his squad to a Schuylkill League championship both years.

Fisher, who drew interest at defensive end but will begin his college career at linebacker, took a substantial step forward on the field for Aliquippa in 2019, and previously helped lead the program to a Pennsylvania Interscholastic Athletic Association (PIAA) title and WPIAL championship as a junior. Fisher was named Beaver Valley Conference Defensive MVP.

The Western Pennsylvania standout surged from No. 738 in 247Sports rankings to No. 165 earlier this month, though he remains outside the top-300 in composite rankings. This rise followed a ratings adjustment from 86 to 92, which is tied for third among Penn State's 2020 prospects. As a a result, he was elevated to four-star status after previously carrying a three-star designation.

Fisher and Elsdon are among three incoming Nittany Lions projected to play linebacker, along with fellow 247Sports four-star recruit Curtis Jacobs. Penn State burned the redshirt of three true freshman at the position during the last two seasons: Jesse Luketa, Micah Parsons and Brandon Smith.

Winners of Mr. Pennsylvania Football will be honored March 7.

Complete list of 2020 Penn State signees...