Indian Railways’ is taking steps to provide a cleaner environment and also reduce the air and noise pollution.

Railways which is shifting to LHB rakes from ICF rakes is generally fitted with two generator coaches from which it generates the power for the whole rake of the train.

The air-conditioned coaches which is running on the End-on-Generation (EOG) system produces an unbearable noise of around 100dB from the power generator cars.

The generator cars also guzzle on an average 3000 liters of diesel per trip per train contributing to the air pollution.

To tackle the dual menace of air and noise pollution, the Head on Generation (HOG) technology is being implemented in the trains of Indian Railways.

The HOG technology works with an improvised converter has been developed, which is fitted in Electric locomotives which can replace the diesel generators.

It uses power from overhead catenary to feed auxiliaries in the coaches hauled by Electric locomotives. It saves up to 1 million liters of diesel per train per annum.

This requires locomotives as well as coaches to be modified for making them suitable for HOG. Locomotives have been manufactured by Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW), over the years, which are HOG compliant.

As of now more than 550 electric locomotives have been provided with HOG converter technology and are yielding benefits of savings on fuel bills to Indian Railways, besides being a noise less and emission less solution to the EOG variant, according to a statement by the Railway Ministry.

To harness the benefits of this high-end technology, pace of HOG conversion works of LHB coaches has been increased from April 2018 onwards. During April 2018 to 5th November 2019, 436 trains (cumulatively over 500 trains) have been converted into HOG compliant trains. It is planned to convert balance End-On-Generation (EOG) LHB rakes into HOG system on accelerated pace to harness the benefits of energy efficient and environment friendly technology.

The major advantages of HOG system include:

a) Reduction in noise- from 100dB noise to noise less,

b) Significant reduction of Carbon dioxide (over 2500 Ton) & NOX(over 10Ton) emissions till now

c) Reduced Diesel Consumption leading to huge savings in operational costs to the tune of over Rs.1100 crores per annum

d) Economical- EOG Power ₹22/unit, HOG Power ₹6/unit

Indian Railways has travelled long way since 2010 when Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW) turned out first HOG based electric loco No.30277 (WAP7) having 2X500 KVA Hotel Load Converter installed in the locomotive,which is in regular train service since then.

The Railways in a press release said that all passenger electric locomotives being produced in production units of Indian Railways namely CLW in Chittaranjan, Diesel Locomotives Works (DLW) in Varanasi & Diesel Loco Modernization Works (DMW) and all passenger coaches manufactured in Integral Coach Factory (ICF), Rail Coach Factory (RCF) & Modern Coach Factory (MCF) are now HOG compliant.

Subscribe to Mint Newsletters * Enter a valid email * Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter.

Topics