Fox19

MIAMI TOWNSHIP, Ohio (FOX19) – A man shot his mother at their home in Clermont County Tuesday afternoon, according to Miami Township Chief of Police Mike Mills.

Mills said police responded to a neighbor’s 911 call around 3 p.m. to find 62-year-old Tatiana Romanova lying in the doorway of the house with a gunshot wound to her head. Police then found Alexei Siddique, 32, in the house and took him into custody on charges of felonious assault.

Romanova, Mills said, was taken to the University of Cincinnati Medical Center, where she is believed to be in critical but stable condition.

The shooting reportedly happened in the 6000 block of Windy Hollow Court. Mills indicated the mother and son live there together.

It was the second time police had been called to the address on Tuesday, Mills said. He added police have been called to the address “numerous times” over the last month.

The calls, Mills said, typically involve Siddique and several times have featured him wanting to harm himself.

Mills speculated Siddique has “some mental health issue that needs to get taken care of.”

The first police visit Tuesday reportedly involved an issue with Siddique. Mills said police would have forced their way inside and “taken him” but there wasn’t an indication he was attempting to harm anyone and his mother indicated everything was “ok.”

“We even asked her if she wanted us to take her somewhere, and she didn’t,” Mills explained. “So again, our hands were tied.”

According to reports, Siddique called the police several times between their first visit and the neighbor’s 3 p.m. 911 call, such that at the time the call came, the responding officers were already outside the subdivision.

Mills said it took them less than 30 seconds to get to the house.

He described the weapon as a “handgun.”

So far, Mills explained, Siddique has provided no indication as to why he shot his mother.

A police investigation, he said, is underway.

Enquirer media partner Fox19 provided this report.