There is new information on the horrific terror attack in Orlando last night that has killed at least 50 and wounded more than 100 in the largest mass shooting in American history.

Sources are telling the Daily Beast that suspected killer Omar Mateen had previously been investigated by the FBI in 2013 and 2014, making this yet another “known wolf” terror attack:

Omar Mateen of Port Saint Lucie, Florida, came to the attention of federal authorities twice prior to being identified as the gunman in the Orlando nightclub mass shooting, a senior law enforcement source told The Daily Beast.

Mateen 53 people and shot more than 100 in total at the Pulse gay nightclub early Sunday morning, in the deadliest mass shooting in modern American history. The senior law enforcement source reports that Mateen became a person of interest in 2013 and again in 2014. The Federal Bureau of Investigation at one point opened an investigation into Mateen but subsequently closed the case when it produced nothing that appeared to warrant further investigation. “He’s a known quantity,” the source said. “He’s been on the radar before.”

Mateen was a U.S. citizen; his parents are from Afghanistan, CBS News reports.

The FBI is already circling the wagons that Marteen was just “one of hundreds” of ISIS sympathizers known to the FBI:

CNN: Shooter known to FBI. No indication he was plotting attack. One of hundreds suspected of being ISIS sympathizers on the FBI’s radar. — State of the Union (@CNNSotu) June 12, 2016

This is not the first time that the gay community has been targeted by would-be jihadists.

In fact, an imam speaking in Orlando in April said that killing gays according to Islamic law should be done “out of compassion”:

On Twitter I’ve noted two previous cases from 2014 in which Islamic terrorists, Musab Masmari and Ali Muhammad Brown, targeted the gay community:

REWIND: 10 years in prison for Seattle gay club arsonist Musab Masmari who wanted to “exterminate homosexuals” https://t.co/5BVI5j4vMz — Patrick Poole (@pspoole) June 12, 2016

REWIND JUN 2014: Known terror cell member Ali Muhammad Brown executes Seattle gay couple for US foreign policy in ME https://t.co/THVXG64G0b — Patrick Poole (@pspoole) June 12, 2016

Islamic Center of Central Florida imam Muhammad Musri spoke at the FBI press conference this morning.

As soon as there’s a terror attack, first thing they do is call the local Islamic Society. pic.twitter.com/g9wkFd1xCp — David Reaboi (@davereaboi) June 12, 2016

As I reported back in 2010, Musri hosted a Hamas fundraiser in his Orlando mosque:

Then in 2011, Musri blamed the 9/11 attacks on the U.S.:

For more than a year and a half I’ve been reporting here at PJ Media on the “known wolf” terror problem — terrorist acts committed by individuals ALREADY known to law enforcement and western national security agencies:

Will the Orlando terror attack finally be the wake-up call for Congress and the Obama administration to address the “known wolf” terror problem?

Don’t hold your breath.