A 73-year-old man has been charged with rape, murder and false imprisonment in relation to the abduction and murder of six-year-old Kylie Maybury in 1984.

Gregory Keith Davies was charged with one count of rape, one count of murder and one count of false imprisonment.

Her body was found dumped in a gutter in Preston early on November 7, seven hours after she was last seen walking home from a nearby shop where she had gone to buy sugar.

A man has been charged over the death of Kylie Maybury, who was found dumped in a gutter in Preston in early 1984. (Supplied)

Gregory Davies was charged in an out-of-sessions hearing today. (9NEWS)

The man was arrested from a home in Waterford Park in Melbourne’s north this morning, and was charged in an out-of-sessions court hearing at Melbourne West Police Station just after 5pm.

Victoria Police held a press conference earlier today, and still wish to speak to a number of people, including an Italian girl with a slim build who spoke to a neighbour of the Mayburies, Lorna Simpson, while she was searching for the young girl on Plenty Road.

She asked Ms Simpson, “are you looking for a little girl?” before telling her “she’s in that car,” referring to a white station wagon.

The girl would now be a woman in her 30s or 40s.

Police have never been able to locate the woman, who they say would have vital information.

The Preston flats where Kylie lived (top left) and an image of a car similar to the one a witness sighted with a child fitting Kylie's description inside. (Vic Police)

Police have released an image of Ms Simpson, who they believe may have passed away, in the hope that the woman will remember speaking to her.

They also wish to speak to two anonymous callers who rang Crime Stoppers.

One made contact in 1984 and alerted them to the white Kingswood Station Wagon which was involved in her death. The other is a caller in 1987 who nominated a specific person.

Police have not revealed the nature of the second call.

“A lot of the stuff we are asking for now, we tried to do prior to the man’s arrest, but we have been unable to which is why we are approaching the media,” Detective Inspector Mick Hughes said today.

Detective Inspector Mick Hughes at the press conference today. (9NEWS)

Kylie was with her mother, Julie, visiting a neighbour in East Preston when she was sent to a nearby milk bar to buy sugar.

“A child should be able to go down the street, buy a packet of sugar and get home safely,” Det. Insp. Hughes said.

“This little girl didn’t.”

He referred to Kylie’s mother as a “pillar of strength” throughout the entirety of the case.

Davies will appear at the Melbourne Magistrates' Court on Friday.