A woman who survived a brain tumour now faces deportation to the Philippines because of her medical costs – despite the tumour being removed.

The 44-year-old is from the Philippines, but has lived in New Zealand since February 2014.

Six months after having surgery for the tumour in April 2018, she applied for a work visa for her job as a hotel housekeeper.

The visa was declined on health grounds, as while her operation was successful, she required regular MRI scans.

There was also the possibility of the tumour coming back, meaning she could impose significant costs on the health system.

In an appeal to the Immigration Protection Tribunal, the woman said she would not be able to afford regular MRI scans in the Philippines.

She said if the tumour came back she could die because she had no savings to pay for surgery.

While this was not likely to happen in the next couple of months, there was a likelihood of the tumour recurring in the next five years, she said, with her neurosurgeon putting it at about a 20 per cent chance.

123RF A woman facing deportation says she won't be able to afford scans or potentially life-saving surgery.

Low wages in the Philippines would also make it difficult for her to afford medical care, she said.

Her appeal said the danger she faced was an "exceptional circumstance of a humanitarian nature that is 'well outside the normal run of circumstances'."

The tribunal accepted there was a risk of the woman developing a further brain tumour, but noted "that risk is not certain".

It also said the woman had not demonstrated that the income she was likely to earn in the Philippines would not cover MRI scans.

The woman also appealed on the grounds that her two sons, aged 11 and 16, would suffer if she were deported.

Her sons lived in the Philippines with her partner, who was unable to work full-time because of physical limitations.

His part-time job put food on the table, her appeal said, but rent, school and clothing was paid for from her New Zealand income.

Without that, her sons would not be able to access health care or educational opportunities in the Philippines.

The tribunal accepted there would be a "drastic reduction" in the amount of financial support the woman would be able to provide for her partner and sons.

However, this did not meet the threshold for being an "exceptional humanitarian circumstance".

Her appeal was rejected by the tribunal.

The woman was granted a six-month work visa to give her time to get her affairs in order, particularly to ensure she had sufficient funds to return to the Philippines and be able to pay for MRI scans there.