On Christmas Eve, Assembly Minority Leader Brian Kolb's local newspaper, the Daily Messenger of Canandaigua, published an op-ed from the Republican lawmaker that urged drivers to avoid drunken driving.

"Many of our holiday traditions, especially our New Year’s Eve celebrations, involve indulging in spirits. Done safely, and in moderation, these can be wonderful holiday experiences. However, tragedy can be only one bad decision away," he wrote.

On New Year's Eve, Kolb was charged with driving while intoxicated near his home in Victor. The Ontario County Sheriff's Office said Kolb crashed a 2018 GMC Acadia on County Road 41 in his hometown. The Assembly issued the vehicle to Kolb in 2018.

The New York Daily News reported in early 2018 that Kolb was issued the taxpayer-funded vehicle worth $43,601 at the same time Speaker Carl Heastie was issued a 2018 Chevy Tahoe by the Assembly.

Kolb was taken into custody after the 10:27 p.m. single-vehicle crash and charged with DWI at the county jail, deputies said. There were no injuries, the sheriff's office said. It was unclear if any passengers were in the SUV when it crashed. The sheriff's office could not immediately share the accident report filed by the deputy and Kolb's blood alcohol content was not available.

Kolb was given a ticket and released from custody.

"This was a terrible lapse in judgment, one I have urged others not to make, and I take full responsibility for it," Kolb said in a statement issued by his office.



"I want to offer sincere apologies to my family, friends, colleagues and the people of the 131st Assembly District. I fully recognize the severity of the situation and I am profoundly sorry. There is no excuse and no justification for what occurred Tuesday evening. I made the wrong decision, and it is one I deeply regret."

Kolb's spokesman, Michael Fraser, confirmed the arrest and said it took place in Victor but deferred further comment to the sheriff's office.

The 67-year-old lawmaker was first elected to the Assembly during a special election in February 2000. He has been re-elected nine times. Kolb became the minority leader April 6, 2009.

After his arrest was announced, Kolb faced criticism from within his own caucus. Assemblyman Kiernan Michael Lalor, a Republican from Dutchess County, called on Kolb to step down as minority leader.

"That he hasn’t done so already is a disgrace," Lalor tweeted late Wednesday morning.

Assemblyman Angelo Santabarbara, a Rotterdam Democrat, called Kolb's DWI arrest a "serious crime" that merited his resignation as minority leader.

"All Assemblymembers should support a call for resignation," Santabarbara said in a statement released by his office.

Kolb's office had no immediately reply.

The sheriff's office said a state trooper assisted with the investigation.