It's been a busy couple of days for Senator Professor Warren. Harry Reid keeps pushing her for vice president. (Shut up, Harry. Shut up now.) Somebody—and I can't imagine who it might be—leaked the fact that she should be endorsing Hillary Rodham Clinton any day now. (Which has brought the wrath of the Bernie or Bust crowd down on her. Yeah, that'll work.)

And, just to prove that she's still getting better at this whole politics thing, she allowed the text of her speech on Thursday night to the American Constitution Society to get out into the world where, among other outlets, ABC News got a hold of it.

"Donald Trump is a loud, nasty, thin-skinned fraud who has never risked anything for anyone and serves nobody but himself," Warren is set to say at the event, where she will share the stage with Vice President Joe Biden. "Judge [Gonzalo] Curiel has survived far worse than Donald Trump. He has survived actual assassination attempts. He'll have no problem surviving Trump's nasty temper tantrums," Warren will say. The Massachusetts senator also plans to tie Trump directly to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan by making the case that Trump is only taking a page from their playbooks. "Trump isn't a different kind of candidate. He's a Mitch McConnell kind of candidate. Exactly the kind of candidate you'd expect from a Republican Party whose 'script' for several years has been to execute a full-scale assault on the integrity of our courts," Warren will say, in accusing McConnell of blocking judicial nominations. "Trump is also House Speaker Paul Ryan's kind of candidate," Warren will say. "Paul Ryan condemned Trump's campaign for its attacks on Judge Curiel's integrity. Great. Where's Paul Ryan's condemnation of the blockade, the intimidation, the smears, and the slime against the integrity of qualified judicial nominees and Judge Garland?"

Annnnnnnnnnd, scene!

She clearly has taken quite to heart her new role as Secretary of Shade in the HRC shadow cabinet. Linking Trump's attack on Judge Curiel to the efforts of More Serious Republicans to stymie the president's other judicial nominees is some first class, old-school East Cambridge nut-cutting.

(Note, if you will, how Speaker Paul Ryan's absurd support-but-not-endorse position on his party's presumptive presidential nominee gets him some chin music.)

Alas, for us all, the folks at ABC News had the Both Sides microchip implanted years ago and so we get this at the end of the story.

Warren's planned remarks are only the latest addition to the senator's many rants against Trump. She has been outspoken in her criticism of the presumptive Republican nominee in recent months, often using Twitter to unleash social media rants against Trump on several occasions. Trump has similarly used Twitter to bash Warren, calling her "goofy Elizabeth Warren" and attempting to mock her Native American heritage by calling her "Pocahontas."

First, we get "rants" twice in two sentences. Can you really "rant" in 140 characters? We need a ruling here.

Second, except for the part about He, Trump's being a "loud, nasty, thin-skinned fraud," what's rant-ish about the rest of the leaked text? Are the Republicans blocking the president's nominees or not? Is Merrick Garland being denied even the courtesy of a hearing or isn't he?

And third, if that's the best He, Trump has for a comeback, isn't it worthy of note that it has absolutely nothing to do with any issue before the public in this election?

However, this is another example of why SPW should not be vice president. She does her best work when, as the Scripture says, she is praying somewhat outside the camp. For the moment, anyway, the Secretary of Shade is in.

Click here to respond to this post on the official Esquire Politics Facebook page.

This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io